---
title: It's alive!
date: 2025-03-19T15:30
tags:
  - tech
  - meta
  - vue
---
Well, the hello world post was written pretty optimistically--but now I actually have this up and running, if not fully featured! There's still plenty to do, like:

*   Tagging system
    
*   Making this prettier
    
*   Adding RSS
    
*   Adding permalinks (hope you didn't want to share this post...)
    
*   Making my build system more robust and less wasteful
    

That last one's a big one, and what ended up taking as long as it did. My site is hosted entirely statically, and I had to do a little creative engineering to get this working. I'm sure this isn't _completely_ novel, and something like Nuxt could've handled it automagically. But I'm a dev, dammit, not a wizard, and I don't want the magic option, I want to understand it!

So, the CMS I'm using is set up to drop files into a subdirectory of the`/public` folder, which the browser then reads, renders with the excellent [Markdown-It](https://github.com/markdown-it/markdown-it), and displays in all its glory.

But, of course, the browser can't just scan `/public` in its entirety whenever it pleases, it can only pull specified files from it. _Vite_, though, can read whatever it pleases! Enter my custom Vite plugin:

```js
{
    name: 'build-page-manifest',
    buildStart(options) {
        if (command === "build") {
            console.log("Building post manifest...");
            const startTime = Date.now(); 

            const env = loadEnv(mode, process.cwd());
            const postPath = path.join(__dirname, env.VITE_POST_PATH);
            const manifestPath = path.join(__dirname, env.VITE_POST_MANIFEST_PATH);
            const postNames = fs.readdirSync(postPath);
            // Default sort works because ISO-8601 is lexicographically ordered
            // That said this has flaws with e.g. posting multiple posts in a day
            // TODO Ideally we want to read this and sort by internal timestamp
            // Also lets us skip over invalid posts
            postNames.sort((a,b) => a < b ? 1 : -1); 
            const json = JSON.stringify({ posts: postNames });
            fs.writeFileSync(manifestPath, json);

            const endTime = Date.now();
            console.log(`Built post manifest in ${endTime - startTime}ms`);
        }
    }
}
```

(If you're implementing this--please, **please** do not follow my example and rely on ISO-8601 timestamp filenames, this is a brittle choice that I intend to fix just as soon as I get back to this project.)

So, when I type out a new post on my CMS, it gets uploaded to GitHub, Netlify triggers a build, Vite will compile a list of filenames, and now the browser can read that list and know what it needs to fetch! It's even all in order, so the browser can know the order in which to display the posts without having to fetch and read each one in turn--minor now, but permits pagination later.

It also...Does all this every time any commit is pushed to the main branch of Git. Is that a problem? Ehh, probably not for my use-case, I'd have to make a truly insane number of posts to start meaningfully eating into Netlify's build minutes. But I should probably figure out a method to only trigger this if any posts have been added or removed.

I'm thinking of publishing the plugin, once I have it cleaned up a little, and ensure it's robust and fully-featured. It's not the most complex piece of engineering, but I am proud of it, and it'd be nice to start paying the open-source ecosystem back a little.